>> Kyle Simpson: So destructuring,
let's dive in and go ahead and
loosen up those fingers cuz there's
gonna be a lot of typing involved.
I'm gonna be showing you some
slides here for a few moments, but
then I'm gonna be switching
into a live coding mode.
And when I do this live coding,
I really want you to keep up and
type along with me.
There are so many different variations of
the syntax that I would have had to put
in, literally,
hundreds of slides to show them all.
So we're just gonna do it in live coding
mode and I'm gonna be using a side by side
view in my code editor so
that you can see the before and
the after of what we're comparing
to versus with this syntax.
So make sure to get ready
to do lots of typing.
We'll spend a pretty considerable
amount of time on this topic,
because I want you to get a sense, or
a better sense of confidence that it is
not just this weird black box
that can't be understood.
There are certainly lots of nuances to it,
and it's gonna take a while.
The first time I tried
to learn destructuring,
I spent probably three weeks
trying to make sense of it.
So it is a complex thing.
But as I said in the course overview at
the beginning, I put this in the course
because I so strongly believe that it will
pay off so many other places in your code.
As you start to get more comfortable with
the idea of destructuring, you start
finding little places all over that you
were doing things in a more manual way and
now we can have this declarative
destructuring do it in a cleaner way.
What does that term even mean,
destructuring?
I don't know what it officially means,
but this is how I like to think of it
mentally, is that it is decomposing
a structure into its individual parts.
First and foremost, you need to understand
that the purpose of destructuring
as a feature is to assign individual
parts from some larger structure.
Assign to individual variables,
assign to individual properties,
whatever, from some larger structure.
So we're taking a big thing,
and assigning down some or
all of its individual parts
to some other locations.
That's what this feature is for.
So let's look at a somewhat common task.
Many of you have probably
done this before,
many of you have probably tried to pull
in some big JSON object from an API.
Maybe you made a request against
the Twitter API or something like that.
And you get a big, hairy nested JSON
object with objects and inside of them,
arrays of other objects that
have arrays and properties.
And you're 19 levels deep and
you're trying to deal with all
this crazy data structure.
And you really just need a few bits and
pieces from this giant structure.
It's very common that you'll,
for convenience's sake, if for
no other reason, go ahead and
just reference off one of
those deeply nested properties and
assign it to some variable.
So that you can then use that variable
in the rest of the code logic of your
program, rather than making a fully
qualified reference into that structure
over and over and over again,
again for convenience sake.
So here's an example of doing that,
I'm gonna pull back some object from this,
get some records API.
And you can see that line three and four,
I'm basically,
pulling out two elements out of an array.
And then line six is I'm taking that
first element from the array, and
I'm looking at some properties on it,
like the dot name property.
And then line seven, I'm actually not only
looking at the dot email property, but
if it's not present, I'm providing
line nine a default email address.
And then I do the same thing for
the second.
So some of you have probably
done code exactly like this or
very similar to this and
maybe many times, and I certainly have.
I've had to consume these big
large JSON data structures.
And this is functional code in
the sense that it mechanically works.
But it is certainly far from ideal
in terms of communicating the idea,
communicating what's happening.
It would take you a fair amount of
effort to have picked through and
figured out what it was doing if
I hadn't just described to you.
And to get a mental model that, okay,
I'm getting back an array of objects that
have name and email properties from it.
You can pick that out, but it takes
a pretty significant amount of brain power
to figure that out from code like this.
In addition to the reader
having to do that sort of work,
it's also very common that
you might get it wrong or
you might miss that there's other bits of
the data that you can't even see there.
And so it's extremely common
that people will also
try to document the data structure
in some sort of code comment.
For example, JSDoc style,
documenting what do I expect back
as the return value from this API?
And you have this very complex
code comment that gives all
the different properties and
their types and things like that.
And code comments
are certainly very useful, but
the big problem with code
comments is they get out of date.
And if the API changes and
your code changes and the comment doesn't,
well now you're misleading people.
So while we can get the job done and
we have for many years,
getting the job done this way,
it leaves a lot to be desired.
And this is the use case.
This is why something like
destructuring was created.
Remember that narrative that we're
telling is that JavaScript evolved in
the direction of being more declarative.
Trying to take the confusing,
hard to understand,
and hard to optimize code that
is very imperative in style,
and instead trying to express
it in a declarative style.
So I'm gonna show you
an overview of destructuring,
which is this example
done with destructuring.
And that's gonna be glossing or
hand-waving over a whole bunch of details.
So don't get intimidated when you see it,
it's just gonna gloss over the detail.
And then, that's when I'm gonna
switch into the live-coding mode, and
give you all the little nitty-gritty.
We will build ourselves up, first
understanding arrays, and then objects,
and all of that.
So just hang on with me, if you're
confused by the next slide, don't worry.
We'll explain it all.
But this example of highly
imperative can be done with this
declarative destructuring
syntax like this.
>> Kyle Simpson: So just taking
a moment to let that kind of sink in,
let me highlight a couple of things
that you should pay attention to.
Number one, on the left hand side of
our equal sign, that is lines one
through ten there, we have what looks
like essentially a JSON object.
We have what looks like an array and
what looks like inside of that array,
a couple of objects and what looks like
properties, inside of those objects.
But that is not what this is.
This is not an array of objects.
Because it's on the left hand side of
an equals, it's not a value at all.
the equals, its actually a pattern.
It is a syntax that is describing
the value that is expected
from the right-hand side, which is
where we call the getSomeRecords() API.
>> Kyle Simpson: A pattern to describe
what kind of value we're expecting to get.
And the purpose of that pattern again,
is not just to describe it,
it's not just for code documentation.
The real purpose for describing it is so
that we can assign those individual
values off as we need them.
So in that pattern on Line 3,
you'll notice that I'm saying,
there is going to be a name property and
then I have a : firstName.
That is essentially saying,
go make me a variable called firstName,
that has the value that is in this
particular location of the data structure,
which is the name property of
the first object in an array.
It describes to JavaScript
declaratively how it should break
down that structure and
make individual assignments for you.
And you'll notice on line four that
I include an equals clause there.
That's the so-called
default value expression.
And that default value expression says,
if there's not an email property present,
go ahead and
use this backup default value to assign
to a variable called first email.
>> Kyle Simpson: Same thing on the second
object, we get a second name, and
a second email, or
a fallback to the default email value.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
at a very high level glance,
that's what you can expect
out of destructuring,
is any place where you would be trying
to break down and assign off pieces
from some larger data structure,
a destructuring pattern can do that.
And it doesn't always have to
be this big hairy JSON object.
Sometimes it can just be an API that
returns you a two-element array,
and you only care about the element
at position one in the array.
Where you would normally do is assign
the array to a temporary variable and
then access temporary variable,
position one.
That's the imperative approach.
The destructuring approach could say,
I'm wanna give me the array
this destructuring pattern for
this assignment and then I'm going to
leave the first element entry blank.
And then only name the second entry,
that's the only one that I wanna sign off,
okay.
So the other take-away here is that
destructuring does not have to account for
the, the pattern does not have to
account for the entirety of the value.
The pattern only has to account for
the part of the value that you
care about at that moment.
It does not have to fully describe it.
In this case, our array could have
returned back hundreds of objects and
we're saying we only
care about the first two.
And also, there could be lots of
other properties on those objects and
we're saying we only care about
the name and email properties.
So this pattern is describing potentially,
either the entire structure or
just a subset of it,
of the necessary structural parts to
get at the things that we care about.
>> Kyle Simpson: The other
takeaway here is that essentially,
this code in its declarative nature,
is self documenting, because in a sense we
are documenting with syntax what we expect
the value returned from the API call.
It would be rather duplicative
to put a JS dot comment,
unless there was a significant amount of
other information that we weren't putting
in the destructuring pattern.
But then you could ask,
why would that information be
useful in a code comment anyway.
Wouldn't it be better for
the reader only to know about the things
that are needed at that moment, as opposed
to a complete dictionary of every
possible property that could be returned?
So I think that's where destructuring
starts to shine, is when we find these
little places and even these big places,
and we declare a pattern for
how we want that breakdown to happen and
let JavaScript take care of the details.
Now there's lots of detail behind this,
and to get into all of that detail,
we need to switch into my code editor and
dive in.
And we're gonna do a lot of live coding,
so again,
make sure you have your code editor up and
ready to type along with me,
as we dive in much deeper into
how destructuring syntax works.